
my name is so and so
i am working as a devops engineer 
i take care of ci cd in the project that i am working in.

i have been the part of the team that has setup cicd from scratch
Jenkins is our CICD Tool,which has all the jobs as pipelines.

As soon as the development team pushes the code to GIT repository 
our jenkins pipeline will get triggered.
Overall our pipelines has three stages Build,Deploy and Test.

Once the code is pushed to GIT repository Build Stage of the pipeline will get 
Triggered, which will pull the source code from GIT and compile the source code 
and generates Binary.
Further using this Binary docker images are created and pushed to an Artifactory.
In the next stage which is Deploy, the docker images from the Artifactory are 
deployed into kubernetes cluster.

Once the deploy stage is completed, the Test stage of the pipeline will get triggered.
In this stage, test cases are run on the deployments which are given by the testing
team. 
In case of any test failures, the Devops team in collaboration with the Testing team
will take care of the issues.

I work on shell scripts which i used to automate manual and repititive tasks.
I am responsible for Docker and Kubernetes operations in my team, I have written a 
Dockerfile and reduced docker image size using Multi-stage build.
I am responsible for deploying and managing application pods using kubernetes.

I also take care of Cloud-infrastructure,AWS is our cloud provider in my previous 
project.
I take care of AWS operations related to services like EC2,S3,VPC,Load-balancing,
Auto-scaling,Cloudwatch,CloudTrail,IAM etc

I have also worked on Terraform and Ansible.I have used Terraform, to sanction 
Infrastructure in the form of IAC on AWS cloud.

I have also used configuration management tool Ansible to manage the
configuration of AWS cloud services.
I take care of releases in the project.We have releases frequenctly , at the time of release
i create release branches, merge different bracnhes and resolve merge conflicts
with the help of Development Team.
We use GIT as our source code repository.

These are the overall tools i have worked on, and my roles and responsibilities in brief.


DAY TO DAY ACTIVITIES:


On a daily basis i work on tickets,We get tickets related to build issues, deployment issues,
GIT issues and Jenkins issues.Jira is our ticketing tool.
We work on those tickets based on priority.Some tickets are crucial we need to close 
those tickets in few hours.

I also play the role of Admin in my team for GIT and Jenkins, i get more tickets related 
to these tools.
I also get tickets related to branching strategy, creating branches, merging branches 
and deleting branches.

Apart from tickets, we have automation work. I will be taking care of automation,as
automation is a never ending process.




